DOCS-544: Program Robots section refactor (#1364)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/program/sdks/_index.md

---

> title: "Interact with Resources with Viam's SDKs"

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this change. I think we need to ensure program is used for seo purposes. But I'd like to hear your thoughts on why interact

> linkTitle: "SDK API Libraries"

Reviewer 2: This and its sub-pages were probably a good amount of work to put together, but honestly I don't think we need/want the sub-pages.  It would seem to be just more more place we'd need to maintain the APIs, and I think its actually less user-friendly in one big page vs where it already is embedded in each resource page...

Author: Might take me a bit to test out but that's a valid suggestion! I like splitting the Robot page out

Author: Ok done @mcvella @npentrel

weight: 20
type: "docs"
description: "Access and control your robot or fleet with the SDKs' libraries for the resource and robot APIs."
icon: "/services/img/icons/sdk.svg"
tags: ["client", "sdk", "viam-server", "networking"]
---

Every Viam {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} exposes an [Application Programming Interface (API)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/API) described through [protocol buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers).

> This can be understood as a description of how you can interact with that resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can think of this as a description of how you can interact with that resource.
```

Author: Done!

- `cmd` [(map[string]interface{})](<https://go.dev/blog/maps>): The command to execute.

**Returns:**

- [(map[string]interface{})](<https://go.dev/blog/maps>): The result of the executed command.
- [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Resource).

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="TypeScript" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `command` [(StructType)](https://ts.viam.dev/types/StructType.html): The command to execute.

**Returns:**

- [(StructType)](https://ts.viam.dev/types/StructType.html): The result of the executed command.

For more information, see the [Typescript SDK Docs](https://ts.viam.dev/interfaces/Resource.html).

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Component APIs

These APIs provide interfaces for controlling and getting information from various components of a robot.
Built-in API methods are defined for every model of each component type.
Documentation on using these methods in your SDK code is found on each [component page](/components/) as follows:

> ### Arm

Author: I agree that'll be annoying but worthwhile for that reason haha

linkTitle: "APIs"
weight: 20
type: "docs"
description: "Access and control your robot or fleet with the SDKs' libraries for the resource and robot APIs."
icon: "/services/img/icons/sdk.svg"
tags: ["client", "sdk", "viam-server", "networking"]
---

Every Viam {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} exposes an [Application Programming Interface (API)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/API) described through [protocol buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers).
You can think of this as a description of how you can interact with that resource.
Different models of resources implement the same API, which [Viam SDKs expose](/internals/robot-to-robot-comms/), allowing you to control different models of resource types with a consistent interface.

The API methods provided by the SDKs for each of these resource APIs wrap gRPC client requests to the robot when you execute your program, providing you a convenient interface for accessing information about and controlling the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resources" >}} you have [configured](/manage/configuration/) on your robot.

## ResourceBase API

> The ResourceBase API is the most basic set of methods that all Resource APIs provide for users across the SDKs.

Author: ```suggestion
The ResourceBase API is the most basic set of methods that all Resource APIs provide for users across the SDKs.
```

> In the Python SDK this is a class that provides base requirements for all child resources: [the `ResourceBase` class](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/resource/base/index.html).

Author: ```suggestion
In the Python SDK, [the `ResourceBase` class](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/resource/base/index.html) defines a basic set of API methods that all child resources should provide for users:
```

> In the Go and TypeScript SDKs, each resource implements these methods within its own interface.

Author: ```suggestio.
In the other SDKs, resource APIs implement but do not inherit these base requirements.
```

> In the Go and TypeScript SDKs, each resource implements these methods within its own interface.

Author: ```suggestion
In the other SDKs, resource APIs implement but do not inherit these base requirements.

`ResourceBase` methods include:
```

---
title: "Interact with Resources with Viam's SDKs"
linkTitle: "APIs"
weight: 20
type: "docs"
description: "Access and control your robot or fleet with the SDKs' libraries for the resource and robot APIs."
icon: "/services/img/icons/sdk.svg"
tags: ["client", "sdk", "viam-server", "networking"]
---

Every Viam {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} exposes an [Application Programming Interface (API)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/API) described through [protocol buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers).
You can think of this as a description of how you can interact with that resource.
Different models of resources implement the same API, which [Viam SDKs expose](/internals/robot-to-robot-comms/), allowing you to control different models of resource types with a consistent interface.

The API methods provided by the SDKs for each of these resource APIs wrap gRPC client requests to the robot when you execute your program, providing you a convenient interface for accessing information about and controlling the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resources" >}} you have [configured](/manage/configuration/) on your robot.

> ## ResourceBase API

Author: ```suggestion
## ResourceBase Methods
```
